hey has gone guys this is Dave 2d and
today I'm giving you a relatively
exclusive look at a device that I think
many people are interested in the Apple
watch and this is my video on my
one-month experience with the Apple
watch keep in mind this is not a review
I had access to an app development unit
I and this is more of a more of a
collection of thoughts and observations
I had while I was using it so I handled
this thing for about a month I had to
give it back so I don't have the unit
anymore but what I do have is a really
cheap and weird-looking replica of this
device and I'll be using some animations
and this replica to showcase some
elements and features that I thought
were important so I'm not going to make
this thing like a three-hour video and
quite frankly I really could because
there's just that much information I'd
love to share with you guys but just for
the sake of your sanity and keeping this
video short I'm just going to focus on
some key elements that I think are
important so here it is my one month
experience of the Apple watch
the Apple watch comes in 2k sizes a 42
millimeter and 38 millimeter and these
dimensions refer to the height of the
case so from the top to the bottom in
terms of their usability they are both
good any decent developer is going to
make their apps very usable on that
smaller 38 millimeter screen as well
some people like them big some people
like them small so underneath this video
I've enclosed a link for a PDF with to
accurately size vectors of the Apple
watch you can download them print them
out and test it out on your wrist just
to see which one you like there's really
no right or wrong it's all preference I
only experience they're stainless steel
case
this is the case material that starts at
549 the casing looks and feels very well
made but the design always seemed a
little feminine to me the sapphire face
does not scratch easily I wasn't really
in the position to test it out with
sandpaper or anything but the stainless
steel casing with the sapphire crystal
face will hold up very well to normal
use
I only got to use the rubber sport band
and I liked it a lot although not in
that super bright blue color it seems
really secure and it seems to be a good
design for active use but the closure
mechanism is a little different from any
watch I've used before if you have
something to rest the watch on like a
table it's easy to put on but if you
want to put the strap on free hand you
kind of have to hold both ends of the
strap with one hand and use some finger
dexterity to maneuver it on so when you
first try it on the store you're
probably going to fumble with it a bit
if you've wanted a different strap the
whole time go for it but don't upgrade
the strap just because it feels weird at
first it's something like three days to
get used to it now I am a little
concerned about this loop strap here it
really feels to be like the weakest spot
of the strap where it could
theoretically rip but in general this
strap is very well made so it's probably
all good one thing I noticed that was
kind of cool is that jeans don't rub off
easily on this material
underneath the bottom strap connection
there's a six pin connection port it's
small and it currently doesn't do
anything for devs or consumers but I
think it's there for future connectivity
like a strap with a blood pressure
sensor or some silly wrist mounted
camera or maybe even watch straps that
have extra batteries inside the strap
Apple does own a patent for this kind of
battery tech so the positioning and the
size and just the sheer prominence of
this port makes me think that Apple is
planning for a future connectivity but
we'll have to see
there are currently nine watch faces
that are available on the Apple watch
you can customize them with little
widget things that they call
complications I was a little confused by
the term at first I mean why I call it a
complication but it's a term that comes
from old-school watchmakers so features
like the dates or weather or stock
quotes or whatever it is these are all
called complications and you can add any
of the ten current complications to any
watch face I'm not going to go into the
details of it but it is simple to
customize these little widget
complication things but the big issue
here is that currently now the consumers
nor developers can create their own
watch faces you can customize any of the
existing nine but you can't create your
one from scratch and even watch kit for
developers doesn't let you do it which
is noisy like crazy because I don't
really like any of the nine available
watch faces some people might like them
and some people might love them but I
personally don't and I'm sure other
people are in the same boat and for a
device that is supposedly Apple's most
personal device ever I don't find this
very personal I want a custom watch face
it doesn't matter if I want a Ninja
Turtle watch face or a Hello Kitty watch
face I should be able to personalize my
own most personal device maybe Apple
plans on selling watch faces in the
future but I think this is something we
should address sooner than later
you've seen the ads the Apple watch has
some weird communication features you
can tap it a rhythm and send it to your
contacts and it also detects your heart
rate and send that out to your contacts
now I tried both of these quite a bit
they're both really silly and just not
useful to me so by the end it just
wasn't using them the Apple ads also
show another feature where you can draw
stuff on the screen and send it to
someone I thought this would be just as
lame but it's surprisingly fun after
using it for four weeks it's still fun
and cute and actually found it to be an
integral part of the Apple watch
experience I think people will have fun
with it especially really immature kids
like myself it's not useful I mean it's
really not useful but it's fun and this
is a cat I don't know what you guys
thought I was drawing
the Apple watch has a speaker and a mic
that you can use to make or take calls
the speaker is a lot louder than I
thought it would be coming from a watch
and the sound quality is actually pretty
decent this is what it sounds like at
max volume about 10 inches away from the
mic hi future Dave this is present-day
Dave and I'm leaving you a voice mail so
that you can use my voice or our voice
to check the sound quality from these
devices in the near future and for
comparison this is what an iPhone 6
speaker sounds like on max volume also
10 inches away from the mic hi future
Dave this is present-day Dave and I'm
leaving you a voicemail so you can use
my voice or our voice to check the sound
quality from these devices in the near
future now remember you do need your
iPhone nearby to make this work but you
can legitimately use the watch to have
conversations so for the first couple of
weeks taking calls on the watch was just
a novelty it was fun but gimmicky and
kind of pointless but after you do it
enough it actually becomes pleasant to
use it's obviously not for every phone
call it's really situational but there
are definitely moments where I actually
prefer using the watch over using the
phone Hale the top hey Dave what are you
doing I'm eating two bananas at the same
time mm-hmm
hey what's up
I'm just going to do a quick overview of
the activity app it's three rings move
exercise and stand so these are the
three main metrics of fitness tracking
on the app watch over the course of each
day you kind of try to fill up each ring
so move is just like a calorie counter
that grows if you're active the exercise
ring is just how many minutes that day
you've exercised to fill that ring you
need to accumulate 30 minutes of
moderate activity and the ring for stand
is just how many minutes you'd spent the
day standing you try to stand for one
minute every hour for 12 hours now the
truth is I could talk about this fitness
app for hours but the short of it is
this it works very well and it's
definitely one of the best fitness
trackers I've used maybe even the best
in terms of overall convenience and
usability aside from the initial novelty
of wanting to see those rings fill up I
wouldn't say that I was more motivated
to exercise but the one thing that I
really like is that the Apple watch is
awesome for gym goers the watch doesn't
need to be paired with the phone for
fitness features so you can put your
phone in your locker and just wear your
watch into the gym it'll continue to
track fitness and if you have wireless
Bluetooth headphones
it'll pipe music to those headphones
without requiring the phone to be paired
this was seriously my favorite feature
the fitness tracking tech inside it is
no different from most top-end
smartwatches but the activity app and
the corresponding iPhone app make this
better than any other fitness tracker
I've used
the learning curve for the controls and
the general UI is a little steep it's
not as intuitive as most Apple products
it's also weird that the bottom button
is the same size and shape as the power
button on the iPhone 6 so you kind of
think it'll turn the screen off when you
press it but after a few days you get
used to the controls and you can
navigate around the apps and
notifications pretty easily the crown is
actually a really good control interface
but the thing is even after I was
comfortable with the controls on the UI
I still preferred my phone to do
basically everything related to these
notifications so things like emails
texts calendar alerts reminders the
Apple watch did all this stuff well but
my phone did it better and it's in my
pocket I felt this way with the Moto 360
and I still feel this way with the Apple
watch now this is an area where
everyone's experience will be different
I know a lot of people really like risk
notifications so keep in mind that this
is just my opinion it from my
experiences
the charger is like a little weird puck
that magnetically attaches to the watch
I think this charging mechanism is kind
of boring it's built well it's wireless
but doesn't matter how you spin it it
looks and acts more like a charging
cable or a dongle instead of a dock and
I prefer the self standing dock from the
Moto 360 that duck wasn't magnetic but
it felt like a little bed for the Moto
360 to take a nap in this feels like
some dangly stethoscope for the watch
there's probably going to be third-party
docks for the Apple watch but yeah I
really don't love this puck thing okay
so some closing thoughts here I think
the Apple watch is a distinctly
different experience from any other
SmartWatch I've used before it has a
different design it's got a very
different UI different type of controls
everything about it is distinctly
different and distinctly Apple but
despite all these differences it doesn't
feel that different from any other
Android wear device in terms of its
usefulness so if you use smartwatches
before and you didn't find them
particularly useful there's nothing
really compelling here to make me say
that this is now a useful device
smartwatches are now useful because
there isn't the one scenario and
literally the only one scenario that I
thought was a new type of leg usage case
was for the gym goer example I gave
earlier because of how the watch could
be used as a standalone device for gym
goers it's awesome to be able to stick
your iPhone in the locker while still
getting wireless music and top-notch
fitness tracking now is that worth 350
or 400 dollars and I don't know even
though it's super cool it still feels
really overpriced to me and if you've
used smartwatches before and you didn't
like them because you didn't like
charging it every day we're in the same
boat here I mean like I mentioned in my
Moto 360 video there are things in our
lives that are worth charging every day
because they're super important like our
cell phones or our notebooks but this is
still a device that when you look at it
and you use it it's still not important
enough to me to warrant charging every
day I just it just doesn't feel that way
now
I think there is a lot of room for
improvement with this device I think
there is more room for improvement on
the Apple watch
then if the any Android watch I've seen
so far I think that the apps will grow I
think they will become bigger and better
and that mysterious 6 pin connection at
the bottom of the watch if Apple is
actually working on a battery packed
wrist wrap I think that's going to
change the game but that
the end of this video I hope you guys
liked it I spent a ridiculous number of
hours working on this thing like a
shameful number of hours working on this
thing if you guys liked it give me some
thumbs and if you loved it give me some
subs it's been nice I'll see you guys
next time